Title: Computing - FSUSciComp
url: https://www.sc.fsu.edu/computing

The Department of Scientific Computing maintains a large and dynamic computing infrastructure in support of research and education.
Computing resources include the FSU RCC/HPC, a number of clusters and computational servers, a laboratory for scientific visualization, a bioinformatics server, and more. While many of the department's computing resources are dedicated to specific research areas, an increasing number of machines are being made available to the University research community in general through the use of high throughput management tools and job schedulers.
Getting Started
Hardware
Remote Access
Software
General Access
Tech Docs

---

Title: RCC (HPC) - FSUSciComp
url: https://www.sc.fsu.edu/computing/general-access/hpc

High Performance Computing
The Research Computing Center (RCC)
- formerly known as the FSU shared-HPC facility -
enables
multidisciplinary computing for the FSU research community. To learn more about this facility please see the RCC web site.
RCC Homepage
High-performance Computing

---

Title: Hardware - FSUSciComp
url: https://www.sc.fsu.edu/computing/hardware

The Department of Scientific Computing maintains computing hardware in a robust machine room on the fourth floor of Dirac Science Library.
Most the hardware in this machine room is owned by DSC and non-DSC research groups and is dedicated to a
wide range of research problems including; molecular biophysics, evolutionary biology, network modeling, and Monte-Carlo algorithm development. DSC faculty and students can access the idle cycles on the owner based machines by using a system called
condor
.  The
condor system
is configured to match single process non-interactive batch submissions to any idle CPUs hosted in the DSC machine room or in DSC desktop machines.  Some general access machines are made available to DSC faculty and students to compile software and to run interactive jobs, e.g., MatLab.  Also, the DSC manages and supports a general access visualization lab and FSU's shared HPC facility.  To learn more about the hardware resources hosted or managed by DSC, click on one of the links below.
General Access
Facilities, Computational Infrastructure

---

Title: General Access - FSUSciComp
url: https://www.sc.fsu.edu/computing/general-access

The Department of Scientific Computing manages and supports a number of general access facilities for DSC faculty and students as well the University computing in general.  Click on any of the links below to learn more about these resources.
Interactive
Visualization
High Performance Computing

---

Title: Interactive - FSUSciComp
url: https://www.sc.fsu.edu/computing/general-access/interactive

Interactive
DSC students, faculty, and students taking Computational Science courses can interactively access the computers located in DSL 152 and the hallway via
ssh
. This allows you to request interactive resources and it will randomly instantiate a session on a workstation. What follows is a quick start for the DSC environment.
How to Run an Interactive Job
Open an X11 terminal and type:
qlogin
OR
hallway
(to access hallway nodes only)
classroom
(to access classroom nodes only)
After authenticating, type the name of the program you want to run, e.g.,
matlab
If
qlogin
is not available on your machine, you must run the above commands from a DSC desktop.
SSH to a DSC desktop or hallway machine:
ssh -X hallway-a.sc.fsu.edu
Then follow the above instructions.
Access Policy
1 job per user
Availability:
Classroom queues are available with the exception of Mon - Fri 7:45 AM till 6:00 PM
Hallway queues are available 24/7.
To guarantee which queue you land in please use either
qlogin -q classroon
or
qlogin -q hallway
NOTE: All remote classroom sessions will be terminated at 7:45 AM M-F. The purpose of the classroom and hallway machines is primarily for students to do their assignments - not as a production engine. Use FSU's HPC system (http://rcc.fsu.edu) for production batch schedule jobs.
Supported Submission Tools

---

Title: Visualization - FSUSciComp
url: https://www.sc.fsu.edu/computing/general-access/visualization

Visualization
It is said that "A picture is worth a thousand words". How true.
The ultimate goal of scientific visualization is to provide scientists with tools that permit them to analyze their data, extract information/features, correlate that information, and display their data in a meaningful way. More importantly, visualization encourages the scientists to ask questions. The more interactive an application, the more questions a scientist can pose. Application areas with large scale datasets (steady or time-dependent) include oceanography, study of hurricanes, data assimilation techniques, phylogenetic tree evolution, geophysics, fluid dynamics, and more.
The visualization laboratory is a DSC facility available for the use of researchers across the entire Florida State University Campus. Use is divided into the following categories:
Visualization Research
Visualization Education
Application of Visualization
Applications
The laboratory is open to all researchers of Florida State University who have a need to visualize and analyze their simulation or other data. Be sure to check out the tutorial section of this web site.
This access can take several forms:
Work within the visualization lab
, making use of dual large screens for maximum flexibility during the generation and rendering of large scale imagery and the generation of sophisticated animations. User data resides on our local 12 TByte storage facility.
Remote access to the visualization laboratory from desktop computers or workstations
. Typically this involves remote SSH connections and X-Window tunneling to run applications on the visualization machines from another location--this does not fully support hardware based graphics. During the coming months the Vis Lab will be testing innovative new software from HP, which allows users to execute any software that runs locally from a remote desktop Linux or windows machine in full graphics mode. As in the first case, data would be stored on our local file system for maximum efficiency.
Education
Perhaps most importantly, visualization is an integral component of the workflow adopted by researchers around the world. Visualization is necessary to
construct computational grids that discretize the physical domain,
check data for accuracy, correctness
analyze simulation data
extract features from simulation data
ask questions of the data
Research
Scientists are encourage to use the laboratory for advanced research in the area of scientific visualization. Areas of interest include
Real time rendering using graphics hardware
Remote rendering
Collaborative visualization
Pattern recognition
Feature extraction
Information visualization
Visual realism
Visualization of uncertainty
Visualization of stochastic multi-dimensional processes
Visualization of higher dimensional data (four and above)
and more ...
Computer Vision

---

Title: Getting Started - FSUSciComp
url: https://www.sc.fsu.edu/computing/getting-started

For new users getting started in our department the following technical documents should be read first:
Getting an account
Logging in to SC systems
Changing your password or environment
Configuring Email
Personal Website Hosting
Account Policy

---

Title: HELP - FSUSciComp
url: https://www.sc.fsu.edu/computing/help

HELP! - Technical Support
Need help? If you have a technology question or other issue, then send us an email, and your request will be directed to someone who will help.
This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it.

---

Title: Remote Access - FSUSciComp
url: https://www.sc.fsu.edu/computing/remote-access

Remote Access
For Computational Science students taking classes needing remote resources for their coursework and research. Please see the following recommended resources:
Scientific Computing Resources
[some restrictions apply]
Students can use secure shell client to connect to
pamd.sc.fsu.edu
, from there run
qlogin
or
classroom
.
SSH to
pamd.sc.fsu.edu
Interactive Shell using
qlogin
or
classroom
Remote Desktop Connections
Students can use secure shell client to tunnel to
pamd.sc.fsu.edu
, from there you can reference "localhost" to tunnel to a protected remote desktop resource.
myFSUVLab
[24x7 Access]
myfsuvlab.its.fsu.edu
Click Here for myFSUVLab's
Service Details
MATLAB Online
[24x7 Access]
matlab.mathworks.com
Click Here for MATLAB Online's
General Limitations
Research Computing (RCC/HPC)
[24x7 Access]
Getting Started > its.fsu.edu/research/rcc-user-accounts
From the "Select a Faculty Sponsor" dropdown you can choose from the following DSC facuilty members:
Gordon Erlebacher, Peter Beerli, Sachin Shanbhag, Xiaoqiang Wang
.

---

Title: Desktop - FSUSciComp
url: https://www.sc.fsu.edu/computing/remote-access/desktop

Remote Desktop at DSC
To facilitate GUI access to classroom and hallway systems, we have opened up remote desktop connections for DSC faculty and students with valid departmental account. Please email
This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it.
if you have any difficulty.
Install "Microsoft Remote Desktop" for Mac; Windows users already have this app by default.
Open terminal for Mac; command prompt for Windows
Run the following command to create a tunnel to hostname (classXX or hallway-X where XX = 02 through 19; X = a through e)
ssh -L:3389:
hostname
.sc.fsu.edu:3389
your_fsuid
@pamd.sc.fsu.edu
(Mac)
ssh -L:13389:
hostname
.sc.fsu.edu:3389
your_fsuid
@pamd.sc.fsu.edu
(Windows)
Login and keep this tunnel for the next step
Start Microsoft Remote Desktop (Mac) / Add PC
PC name:
localhost
Friendly name: My tunnel to classroom (whatever name you prefer)
Open this newly created "My tunnel to classroom" and login to the pre-selected hostname
NOTE: You can safely ignore certificates warning by clicking on "Continue"
Start Remote Desktop Connection (Windows) / Show Options
Computer: "
localhost:13389
"
User name: "your_fsuid"
Click on "Connect" and login to the pre-selected hostname
NOTE: You can safely ignore certificates warning by clicking on "Yes"

---

Title: SSH - FSUSciComp
url: https://www.sc.fsu.edu/computing/remote-access/ssh

SSH Access
Most of the department computing resources can be accessed from
pamd.sc.fsu.edu
.
Use the
hallway
or
classroom
or
cil
command to connect to our application servers. For example:
pamd% hallway
pamd2% classroom
The
qlogin
command is also available on our desktop workstations (e.g. hostname = dskscsXXX.sc.fsu.edu or hallway-[a-e].sc.fsu.edu)
Students can also connect to their departmental desktops directly from pamd or pamd2 as follows:
pamd% ssh dskscsXXX.sc.fsu.edu
Never
use the
pamd.sc.fsu.edu
servers to run processor intensive jobs.
Intensive processes will be terminated to ensure SSH access to
pamd.sc.fsu.edu
is available to all users.

---

Title: Software - FSUSciComp
url: https://www.sc.fsu.edu/computing/software

The following software categories are supported by the department's technical support group. Support for any additional submission tools needs to be approved by the
Technology Committee
.
Supported Applications
Supported Libraries & Compilers
Supported Submission Tools

---

Title: Supported Applications - FSUSciComp
url: https://www.sc.fsu.edu/computing/software/applications

Supported Applications
The following software applications are supported by the department's technical support group. Support for any additional applications needs to be approved by the
Technology Committee
.
Title
Acrobat Reader
Mathematica
R
MATLAB
LaTeX
ImageMagick
Gnuplot

---

Title: Supported Libraries & Compilers - FSUSciComp
url: https://www.sc.fsu.edu/computing/software/libraries-compilers

Supported Libraries & Compilers
The following libraries and compilers are supported by the department's technical support group. Support for any libraries and compilers needs to be approved by the
Technology Committee
.
Title
GROMACS
Super LU
LAPACK
GSL
FFTW
BLAS
ARPACK
g95
g77
g++
GNU Compiler Collection (GCC)

---

Title: Supported Submission Tools - FSUSciComp
url: https://www.sc.fsu.edu/computing/software/submission-tools

Supported Submission Tools
The following submission tools are supported by the department's technical support group. Support for any additional submission tools needs to be approved by the
Technology Committee
.
Title
Interactive

---

Title: Version Control Systems - FSUSciComp
url: https://www.sc.fsu.edu/computing/96-tech-docs/225-svn-information

Version Control Systems
Will your code be for free / open source software?
If
YES
, then you should first try one of these free source code repositories:
github
GitHub is how people build software. With a community of more than 15 million people, developers can discover, use, and contribute to over 38 million projects using a powerful collaborative development workflow."
source
SourceForge.net
"SourceForge.net is the world's largest open source software development web site. We provide free services that help people build cool stuff and share it with a global audience."
source
If
NO
, then we recommend using
git
.
Quick start for Git
Creating and commiting on pamd.sc.fsu.edu
$ cd (project-dir)
$ git init
$ (add some files)
$ git add .
$ git commit -m 'Initial commit'
Cloning and Creating a Patch
$ git clone ssh://{mylogin}@pamd.sc.fsu.edu/panfs/\
   panasas1/research/{mydir}/{mygitproj}
$ cd {mygitproj}
$ (edit files)
$ git add (files)
$ git commit -m 'explain what I chanded'
$ git format-patch origin/master
For more information about how to use git see the
Git Community Book
. The section on
Distributed Workflows
is especially useful.
Note: Once your code is
presentation ready
we recommend sharing the URL and details of your project for posting to our
Department software collection here.
You can email
This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it.
with the details.